# Course of Action Orchestration

Course of Action Orchestration automates the process of responding to critical network event occurances, such as component or node failures, through pre-established playbooks.

Playbooks are sets of automated remedial actions, defined by the network administrators, that security appliances execute when triggered by the COA/SOAR rules.

Course of Action Orchestration is highly related to resiliency.

A key aspect of COA Orchestration is the enablement of multiple tools, devices, and services to work together to enable resiliency in the network - the 'orchestration' in COA Orchestration. An example is the use of network monitoring tools with back up systems to automatically provision and start up a back up router if a primary router fails.

Course of Action Orchestration is somewhat related to Security Ochestration and Automated Response (SOAR).

Course of Action Orchestration is often distinguished from SOAR by intent and action; COA Orchestration is more closely associated with automated failovers, recoveries from failures, response to performance degredation due to legitimate use (sudden increases in traffic, e.g.), and response of non-security related system events. SOAR is focused on security related events responses such as DDoS, network intrusion, virus propogation, DLP, and other malicious security-related attacks against the system.

COA Orchestration is focused on system resiliency and continued operation.

SOAR is focused on system security and attack damage reduction.

COA Orchestration and SOAR are distinct from SIEM but related. SIEM collects and correlates incidents and events, and generates alerts. COAO and SOAR initiate specific sets of network actions based on alerts generated by SIEM.

COA Orchestration reduces response time to network events, reducing Mean Time To Detect and to Mean Time to Respond.

## References

[1] https://www.fortinet.com/resources/cyberglossary/what-is-soar
[2] https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/cyberpedia/what-is-soar